---
tags:
  - questions
---


[[Two Pointer]] 

Given a string `s`, find the length of the **longest** **substring** without duplicate characters.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "abcabcbb"
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** The answer is "abc", with the length of 3. Note that `"bca"` and `"cab"` are also correct answers.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "bbbbb"
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:** The answer is "b", with the length of 1.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** s = "pwwkew"
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** The answer is "wke", with the length of 3.
Notice that the answer must be a substring, "pwke" is a subsequence and not a substring.


## Solution: 

```
class Solution:
    def lengthOfLongestSubstring(self, s: str) -> int:
        seen = set()
        left = 0
        max_len = 0

        for right in range(len(s)):
            while s[right] in seen:
                seen.remove(s[left])
                left+=1

            seen.add(s[right])
            max_len = max(max_len, right-left+1)
        return max_len
```


## Logic: 

We first define a set which contains the letters of the longest sub string without repeating characters.

Next we define a variable left which basically denotes the left most index of the sub string.
`max_len` contains the max length of sub string so far.

Now we start increasing the right borders, which means that we start iterating through the letters of the string while adding each character to the `seen` set.

When a repeating character is seen, we start removing characters(from the left of the string) from the set such that all the characters in the sub string are unique again. We also keep increasing the `left` variable when such a thing occurs. This is done to keep moving the cursor forward and allowing us to accurately calculate the length of the sub string.

Then we compare the original value of `max_len` with the length of the new sub string which is found using `right-left+1`.

After the for loop concludes, we return the value of `max_len`.